{% include JB/setup %}

### 1. Introduction

This document is not intended to be a water-tight legal agreement. It is
instead intended to provide a framework of understanding as to how Shadowfire
operates, what we deem to be acceptable and what we do not. As such, we expect
a certain level of common sense and intuition. If you are uncertain about
anything, please speak to an IRC operator online (join the #shadowfire channel)
or [contact support](contact.html) with your question.

This Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) governs the use of computers and servers on
the Shadowfire Internet Relay Chat Network. As a user of these resources, you
are responsible for reading and understanding this document. This document
protects Shadowfire's users, computing hardware, networks and system
administrators.

Shadowfire reserves the right to alter this AUP and any terms and conditions of
service at any time without prior notice.

The ShadowFire AUP is under constant review and we consider comments from both
our users and staff. Users are subject to the AUP in effect at the time of
making use of any Shadowfire resource or service.

### 2. User Rights

A user's rights are, to put them simply:

 * the ability to chat freely;
 * the ability to manage one's channel(s) as one sees fit, without fear of reprisal;
 * not risk disconnection by vindictive IRC operators;
 * not endure abuse or harassment from users or IRC operators.

### 3. User Responsibilities

Users are the reason Shadowfire exists; and content users make a happy network.
As such, Shadowfire provides its users with a rather large amount of freedom in
that its administration aims not to involve itself with channel/user politics.

In return for this freedom, each user is expected to live up to a few
expectations, including:

 * not engaging in any form of IRC or Internet warfare – this includes, but is not limited to: nuking, flooding and spamming;
 * to not abuse or harass other users or channels – this includes, but is not limited to: "name" calling, racist remarks, spamming, advertising etc;
 * to comply with a channel's guidelines – that is, when you join a channel, you are expected to abide by that channel's rules and regulations;
 * to comply with any provisions made in a server's Message Of The Day (MOTD). For example, the maximum number of simultaneous client connections, the general use of the network and the connection of bots to the server. Type `/motd` to view a server's MOTD. If in doubt, simply ask first.
 * to respect local and international law, copyrights and trademarks.

Actions falling outside these guidelines will be considered abuse of
Shadowfire's resources or the freedom provided to its users. Nobody likes
abuse. Shadowfire's staff hate dealing with it. Please respect this.

### 4. The Role of the IRC Operator

An IRC Operator (IRC-op) is someone who manages the network and its servers and
supports the network's users. Their status on the network begins and ends
there. As mentioned above, IRC-ops attempt to remain as unintrusive as possible.

If you have a question or problem, please don't hesitate to contact an IRC
Operator. They're there to help.

IRC-ops will not get involved in any of the following:

 * personal arguments or disputes;
 * the manner in which a channel is run or the rules a channel imposes.

However, IRC-ops may become involved should any of the above impact, or have the potential to impact, the network as a whole in any way.

IRC Operators also end up dealing with any abuse of Shadowfire's resources or
the freedom it provides its users. Abuse may result in a temporary or permanent
ban from the network. It may also result in the loss or suspension of any
network related resources – such as channels or nicknames.
